---
published: false
title: Jim Crace
date: '2007-05-12T19:08:00.000-04:00'
author: Lori
tags:
- Fiction
modified_datetime: '2007-05-15T14:40:12.731-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-6014637508230242194
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2007/05/jim-crace.html
---

I really meant to do a nice little review of <em><a href="http://brookline.booksense.com/NASApp/store/Product?s=showproduct&isbn=9780385520751">The Pesthouse</a></em>, but today has been quite busy and exhausting. It's good to know that so many people love their mothers. So, in lieu of my writing, I've decided to give you a taste of some of Mr. Crace's(which is far superior, anyways). This is the first story from <em>The Devil's Larder</em>, a collection of short (actually, very short) stories he pubished in 2003 that's pretty much out of print. It is one of my favorite little things:<br /><br />"Someone has taken of--and lost--the label on the can. There are two glassy lines of glue with just a trace of stripped paper where the label was attached. The can's batch number--RG2JD 19547--is embossed on one of the ends. Top or bottom end? No one can tell what's up or down. The metal isn't very old.<br /><br />They do not like to throw it out. It might be salmon--not cheap. Or tuna steaks. Or rings of syruped pineapple. Too good to waste. Guava halves. Lychees. Leek soup. Skinned Italian plum tomatoes. Of course, they ought to open up the can and have a look, and eat the contents there and then. Or plan a meal around it. It must be something that they like, or used to like. It's in their larder. It had a label once. They chose it in the shop.<br /><br />They shake the can up against their ears. They sniff at it. They compare it with the other cans inside the larder to find a match in size and shape. But still they cannot tell if it is beans or fruit or fish. They are like children with unopened birthday gifts. Will they be disappointed when they open up the can? Will it be what they want? Sometimes their humour is macabre: the contents are beyond description--baby flesh, sliced fingers, dog waste, worms, the venom of a hundred mambas--and that is why there is no label.<br /><br />One night when there are guests and all the wine has gone, they put the can into the candlelight amongst the debris of their meal and play the guessing game. An aphrodisiac, perhaps; "Let's try." A plague. Should they open up and spoon it out? A tune, canned music, something never heard before that would rise from the open can, evaporate, and not be heard again. The elixir of youth. The human soup of DNA. A devil or a god?<br /><br />It's tempting just to stab it with a knife. Wound it. See how it bleeds. What is the colour of the blood? What is its taste?<br /><br />We all should have a can like this. Let it rust. Let the rims turn rough and brown. Lift it up and shake it if you want. Shake its sweetness or its bitterness. Agitate the juicy heaviness within. The gravy heaviness. The brine, the soup, the oil, the sauce. The heaviness. The choice is wounding it with knives, or never touching it again."<br /><br /><blockquote><br /> </blockquote>