---
published: false
title: On the Frustrations of University Presses
date: '2007-07-10T17:14:00.000-04:00'
author: Lori
tags:
- Bookselling Life
modified_datetime: '2007-07-10T18:42:43.326-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-8921826230448956790
blogger_orig_url: https://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2007/07/on-frustrations-of-university-presses.html
---

And now it's back to the basement. I actually had one of my last few buying appointments today, which means I'll get to be up on the sales floor more often--at least until October, when next buying season rolls around. As much as I love buying, I've been itching to get back to working with customers again and being around actual books, not just the promise of those to come.  <br /><br />Today I was buying from a number of university presses, which is to me incredibly frustrating. I don't have the free reign to buy from these publishers as I do others, and even if I did, the expense of university press books makes it difficult for me to be enthusiastic about the prospect of selling them. I just have a hard time asking people to pay more than $20 for a paperback. I understand the economics behind the high prices of university press books (well, <em>some</em> of the economics--some seem a bit sketchy to me), and that I, the trade bookstore buyer, am not their target customer, but it is frustrating. This may be impolitic, but I'll give a couple examples.<br /><br />The University Press of Florida is publishing <em>Matecumbe</em>, a manuscript by <a href="https://brookline.booksense.com/NASApp/store/Search?s=results&initiate=yes&amp;fromauthor=yes&author=215227">James Michener </a>that Random House shelved long ago. Sounds interesting, but not $21 for an unpublished novel interesting (and a paperback at that!). Why not make the book $10 and market it to all the fans out there who loved reading his historical sagas and are just curious for something new and different? It makes me think the publishers don't really think <em>Matecumbe</em> is worth reading at all. In that case, why are they publishing it?<br /><br />A book with photos, lyrics and stories of <a href="https://www.rollingstone.com/artists/kateandannamcgarrigle/biography">Kate and Anna McGarrigle </a>written by Dane Lanken, Anna McGarrigle's husband, sounds lovely, doesn't it? Not when it's a 160-page paperback for $45.  Thanks for nothing, Michigan State University Press.<br /><br />I could keep going, but I'm depressing myself. I remember how excited I was when I saw that a friend of mine since grade school and current professor of political science at University of Nebraska had <a href="https://www.routledge.com/shopping_cart/products/product_detail.asp?curTab=DESCRIPTION&id=&amp;parent_id=&sku=&amp;isbn=9780415420150&pc=/shopping_cart/search/search.asp!search=In%20Defense%20of%20Human%20Rights">his first book </a>published. I'm afraid I won't be ordering any for the store, but Routledge has it, and it can be yours for $120.