---
published: false
title: On Anne Fadiman and Bookishness
date: '2007-06-13T19:15:00.000-04:00'
author: Lori
tags:
- Not Fiction
- Confessions
modified_datetime: '2007-06-13T20:57:25.691-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-455678510571592219
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2007/06/on-anne-fadiman-and-bookishness.html
---

This is probably not all that surprising, but I love books about books. And, in my mind, without question, the book-about-books above all others is <strong>Anne Fadiman's <em><a href="http://brookline.booksense.com/NASApp/store/Product?s=showproduct&isbn=9780374527228">Ex Libris</a></em></strong>. If you haven't read this little jewel, you must. It will only take you a few hours, and you'll feel at the end as if you've found a new best friend.<br /><br />I always enjoy talking with folks who have read <em>Ex Libris</em> and finding out which essay is their favorite. I usually say mine is the first one, "Marrying Libraries," I think because I like to daydream about what kind of joint library will be created when I meet my mate (you can read an excerpt of that essay <a href="http://www.spiritcatchesyou.com/exlibrisexcerpt.htm">here</a>). But, well, looking at the table of contents, now I'm finding it hard to say that's true unequivocally.<br /><br />There's also "Never Do That to a Book," wherein Ms. Fadiman's brother is chastised by a hotel maid for leaving a book lying spreadeagled and face down. I am what the author would call a courtly lover of the book -- I shudder when I see people in the store fold a paperback cover back over the spine. Like her friend Clark, I have bought two copies of a book, one to read and the other to keep pristine. I'm afraid I can appreciate only in theory the passion of the carnal book lover who destroys their books in the name of love.<br /><br />And I can't forget "Words on a Flyleaf," Ms. Fadiman's examination of the inscriptions we write in the books we give to others. Whenever I ring up a used book, and it has an inscription, I have to read it. I just have to. And then, depending on what it says, I wonder what happened to George, or if Amy and Laura are still good friends, or whether Mark knows that his gift has been sold for 20% of the cover price in store credit. I wonder sometimes what happens to the books I've given as gifts and inscribed. And I think about the books I've kept through various moves and purges not because of the book itself, but because of what a friend had written inside.<br /><br />[A side note of pure serendipity: Jessica, a bookseller in New York, has a fantastic blog called <a href="http://writtennerd.blogspot.com/">The Written Nerd</a>. Today she mentions <a href="http://bookinscriptions.com/books/">The Book Inscription Project</a>, where you can see (and send in yourself!) the best and/or worst inscriptions found in used books. So cool!]<br /><br />So all this is to say that I'm really excited for <strong><em><a href="http://brookline.booksense.com/NASApp/store/Product?s=showproduct&isbn=9780374106621">At Large and at Small</a></em></strong>, Ms. Fadiman's new essay collection which we just got in this week. Though the topics move beyond that of the bookish, I'm so thrilled for more from such a dear-to-me-though-we've-never-met author. NPR did a very nice piece with Ms. Fadiman last week that you can read/listen to <a href="http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=10785932">here</a>. I love her stumping for the familiar essay, which is such a brilliant genre when it is well done, and hearing her address the very idea with which I started this entry--that to read her is to think you've found a new friend.