---
published: false
title: 'warning: graphic (novel) content!'
date: '2010-11-04T19:07:00.001-04:00'
author: Amanda
tags:
- alison bechdel
- fun home
- graphic novels
modified_datetime: '2010-11-04T19:58:19.157-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-6442476063822143906
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2010/11/warning-graphic-novel-content.html
---

So, I know that I am terribly late to this particular party, but I just finished reading <em>Fun Home</em> by Alison Bechdel, which came out in 2006 and was immediately nominated for every book award ever to exist.<br /><br />If you had told me, even a year ago, that I was not only going to read a graphic novel but finish it and want to read it all over again, I would have told you to get real. <em>Graphic novels? </em>Pshaw. A fancy name for comic books, and I grew out of comic books when I realized that Betty was never going to triumph over Veronica, back when I was about...oh...eight years old. So, year-ago me would have told you NO. I am not going to read a graphic novel. I am fully grown out of picture books.<br /><br />Ah, but now, after reading <em>Fun Home</em>, I am converted. Bring on the graphic novels (the well-written ones, anyway -- just like I don't want to read a bad novel, I don't want to read a bad graphic novel). Pile graphic novels in front of my door and lock me in my room until I have read them all. I will do so with a happy heart and a smile on my face.<br /><br />Hyperbole and triteness aside, I really did adore <em>Fun Home.</em> The storyline is as complex and delicious as any well-loved novel. Bechdel chronicles her somewhat tumultuous relationship with her late father, slowly discovering his homosexuality -- and her own -- over the course of the memoir. Only a few weeks after Bruce Bechdel comes out to his daughter, he is hit and killed by a truck -- whether his death was accidental or intentional is for the reader, and Bechdel herself, to figure out. What juice! What depth! Bechdel's chronology is wonderful and twisted -- we know of her father's death and potential homosexuality before the book really digs into the meat of the text. Bechdel also dialogues extensively with other texts and authors, including <em>The Odyssey, Ulysses, The Importance of Being Earnest</em>, Fitzgerald, Camus, and Proust, and does so gracefully.<br /><br />Bechdel's skilled, thoughtful illustrations added immensely to her text. They don't just illustrate moments in the text -- although some do exactly that. They, instead, dialogue with the text itself; there's a wonderful sequence in which the text is discussing Oscar Wilde and his encoding of homosexuality in <em>The Importance of Being Earnest</em>, and the illustrations are of a community theater group rehearsing for the same play. Speech bubbles coming out of characters' mouths are indicative of the text above: it's hard to describe with no image, but in one panel, the caption text reads <em>Then Wilde was tried for committing indecent acts and sent to prison while both The Importance and The Ideal Husband were playing to full houses. </em>In the accompanying illustration, the director instructs the actors to "take it from 'please don't touch.'" Aghh! My little English major heart goes pitter-pat.<br /><br />As worried as I was that the illustrations would make it seem as if I were reading a comic book, <em>Fun Home</em> is anything but. Some illustrations are quite adult; there are depictions of dead bodies and lesbian sex, and there is nudity throughout. And they're skillfully done; facial expressions are lovely, and Bechdel draws in different styles depending on what she's depicting -- maps, photographs, or real-life moments. And the final illustration brought a lump to my throat.<br /><br />So, bringing it back to me (as always!), it's like Evan wrote a few weeks ago -- try something that you don't think you're into, be it Booksmith events or graphic novels or anything in between. I fully plan on devouring the next Bechdel material I can get my hot little hands on, and I definitely recommend <em>Fun Home</em> as a starter graphic novel for anyone who thinks they might be even slightly interested in the genre.<br /><br />__<br /><br />P.S. We're having a graphic novel author right here at Booksmith at the end of the month! On November 29,  at 7 PM, Phoebe Potts will be reading from her new novel <em>Good Eggs, </em>which deals with her journey on the road to motherhood. Come in and try graphic novels out for yourself!