---
published: false
title: Livin' the Booksmith Dream
date: '2010-07-06T14:16:00.007-04:00'
author: Liz T.
tags: 
modified_datetime: '2010-07-06T16:00:19.805-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-7219447032475811525
blogger_orig_url: https://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2010/07/livin-booksmith-dream.html
---

Hi there! I'm Liz T. and will be your new Tuesday blogger. Hip hip hooray!<br /><br />I figured I'd start out by musing on working at Brookline Booksmith, since I am both a new and old employee.<br /><br />When I found out several months ago that I was going to be laid off from my full time, cubicle job of 11 years at a magazine publishing house, of course I was nervous and a tad fearful, but underneath that was a spark of excitement. No, I did not want to collect unemployment, tune up my resume (not that that's a bad idea anyway,) write endless cover letters and hit the streets looking for a new job. I wanted to work at Booksmith, full time.<br /><br />I've been at the store part time for almost ten years working nights and weekends, and I've often thought about working here full time and, as I call it, livin' the Booksmith dream. Suddenly, the opportunity arose, stars aligned and I jumped on it.  Sure, there have been some logistical adjustments I had to make (I still never know what day it is) and my feet hurt a lot now, but I officially love it!<br /><br />I've been talking to my friends and family about my "new" job a lot these days and trying to explain to people who've never been here why I love it so much. Sometimes the uninformed wonder why I'd want to work at a retail job - "isn't that a step down after your cushy corporate job?" Not at all, I tell them.<br /><br />A job at Booksmith is more than a retail job. The store is the hub of a community, a place where people come to find out what's going on. We sell books (<a href="https://brooklinebooksmith-shop.com/">new</a> and <a href="https://brooklinebooksmith-shop.com/ubc">used</a>), cards and adorable gift items but we also talk about ideas and art, music and poetry, and sometimes politics. It is endlessly interesting.  It's a people place.  I feel renewed when I come to work and that's not something I could say about my last job in my beige cubicle, where reminders of the corporate values were hung on every wall.  My co-workers are smart and dedicated and fun to be around.  The customers, from near and far, are just as smart and fun.  Our <a href="https://www.brooklinebooksmith.com/events/mainevent.html">events</a> staff bring in the most talented and varied authors from first time novelists to well-known celebrities.<br /><br />I'm sure this sentiment has been expressed on this blog before, but I had to add my voice to the others.  As far as my soul goes, working here is a major step up.  (However, I could use a foot rub.)<br /><br />See you around the store!