---
published: false
title: Have book, will travel
date: '2010-08-17T14:52:00.008-04:00'
author: Liz T.
tags: 
modified_datetime: '2010-08-17T18:12:35.367-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-8433586222360191254
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2010/08/have-book-will-travel.html
---

I've got an eight hour train ride ahead of me this Thursday and I'm going to read "<span id="SPELLING_ERROR_0" class="blsp-spelling-error">Moby</span> Dick." I won't, as I usually do when I travel, bring seven different books, wind up reading only one and lug around the rest as dead weight in my bag. Okay, so maybe I'm bringing <em>one</em> other book but I can't help myself; I'm halfway through the second <span id="SPELLING_ERROR_1" class="blsp-spelling-error">Steig</span> <span id="SPELLING_ERROR_2" class="blsp-spelling-error">Larsson</span> book ("The Girl Who Played With Fire") and I know I'll need to indulge in that at some point. It's too delicious to leave behind.<br /><br />Anyway, I was inspired to finally read the great <span id="SPELLING_ERROR_3" class="blsp-spelling-error">Moby</span> Dick by a conversation I had at the register with two fellow booksellers and an enthusiastic customer. Both the customer and my co-worker raved about Melville's story so much that it lit a fire in me and I decided to commit. I admit to being a little intimidated by the size, but size is nothing if you love a book. I was told that there might be some boring bits in the middle, but that overall the narrative is excellent. I think I can handle that.  I love Dickens, after all.<br />Being a visual person, I was also swayed by the gorgeous <a href="http://www.brooklinebooksmith-shop.com/book/9780142000083">Penguin edition</a> with the awesome woodblock art on the cover.  It's always nice to carry around a bit of art with you on your travels.<br /><br /><br />I really WANT to like <span id="SPELLING_ERROR_4" class="blsp-spelling-error">Moby</span> Dick.  I'll report back after my trip and let you know how I feel about it.  Sixteen hours on a train (to Washington, DC and back) should give me enough time to at least get halfway through. <br /><br />Have a good week!