---
published: false
title: A Booksmith Holiday Poem
date: '2011-12-24T15:23:00.000-05:00'
author: Natasha
tags:
- christmas
- hanukkah
modified_datetime: '2011-12-24T15:43:29.762-05:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-8319129106324736198
blogger_orig_url: https://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2011/12/booksmith-holiday-poem.html
---

<b>by Julia; Card and Gift Room rockstar!</b><br /><br />'Twas the day before Christmas<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; and all through the store,<br />Through all of the aisles<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; the customers pour. <br /><br />All those young and old <br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; who waited too long,<br />Come to buy all their gifts<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Before they are gone.<br /><br />We Booksmithees scurry<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; From here and to there.<br />Weaving through customers<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; All so unaware<br /><br />Moms, dads, siblings, friends,<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Gather all of their gifts:<br />No Buttons! iPlunges!<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Whatever they can lift.<br /><br />The register lines<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; seems to go on for miles.<br />But we carry on,<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Giving everyone smiles.<br /><br />As customers wait<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For their gifts to be wrapped,<br />At the gift-wrapping station<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; UBC workers are trapped<br /><br />As we sell, search and restock<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; How our bodies strain,<br />But massages and free food<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Help ward off the pain.<br /><br />So to all procrastinators<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; --I mean customers--here,<br />We greet you all <br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Full of holiday cheer.<br /><br />For despite&nbsp;the&nbsp;chaos, <br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; we truly delight<br />In helping you pick out <br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; the gift that's just right. <br /><br />Be it book, toy or jewelry,<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Even Handerpants, too,<br />We hope what you find here<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Brings fun and joy to you.<br /><br />So until 8 o'clock<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; When we turn out our lights,<br />And settle at home<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; for a calm winter's night,<br /><br />Booksmith's doors are wide open. <br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; And we welcome you in,<br />To do last-minute shopping <br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 'Ere Christmas begins.<br /><br />So to you Merry Christmas<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; And a&nbsp;Hanukkah&nbsp;so fine,<br />From us at Booksmith to you-<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Now, may I help the next in line?