---
published: false
title: You know you need a beach read.
date: '2011-06-07T21:46:00.000-04:00'
author: Shoshana
tags: 
modified_datetime: '2011-06-07T21:46:20.384-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-3461699163670611564
blogger_orig_url: https://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2011/06/you-know-you-need-beach-read.html
---

It's no secret that there are obstacles facing independent bookstores these days. There are things we can offer that Amazon and its ilk can't or don't; we'll spend twenty minutes helping you find the right book for your loved one, we'll bring you Tim Wakefield, we'll remember your dog... But all the same, sad news does happen for bookstores in our community, and it reminds us how much we appreciate the customers who try us first, the ones who are trying us for the first time, and the ones who have been coming for thirty years.<br /><br />Speaking of community, it's great to see someone from another segment of the book business--a literary agent--caring enough to start a campaign to Save Bookstores. Here are Kelly Sonnack's words:<br /><br /><span class="z19Dle zG9tqc" id="col-z13ydd1x1u3tfbnzp04cd3m5bnmwe3dqudw"><span class="HgYomf"><span class="QGJaM Ig Uqtsze" style="display: block;"><i><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: x-small;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">I’ve  gotten sick of reading the bookstore obituaries in the publishing news,  so I’m starting a viral campaign to get people, on 1 day, to go buy  books from their local bookstore. Might not end up changing the tides,  but it’s something small I can do to make a difference and I’m getting a  great response so far – people are excited to be a part of this. Here  are the details for you to pass on to your friends/family/fellow  booklovers:<br /><br />Who: You and all the book-lovers in your life<br />When: June 25th, the first Saturday of Summer!<br />Where: Your local bookstore (and if you don’t have one near you, Powell’s ships </span></span></i><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: x-small;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[as do we]</span></span><i><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: x-small;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12.0pt;"><br />Why: Because bookstores are dropping like flies and we want them to stay alive<br /><br />Thanks  for passing this along to whomever you think would want to get on  board. And blog about it, tweet about it (#SaveBookstores), FB about it,  too.</span></span></i></span></span></span>