---
published: true
title: Books, man.
date: '2013-03-27T12:59:00.002-04:00'
author: Jamie
tags:
- they're still babies forever
- jamie
- book lists
- siblings
- fourteen-year-olds
- frazzled
modified_datetime: '2013-03-27T12:59:43.718-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-9091532586178121456
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2013/03/books-man.html
---

I'm seeing my baby sister and brother tomorrow. &nbsp;They'd probably be mad at me for calling them babies, simply because they're teenagers now, complete with cell phones, facebook profiles, and a sense of agency. &nbsp;I don't care, we have over a decade age difference and I've changed their diapers. You can't go back from that.<br /><br />While I was packing, I asked them both if they wanted anything. &nbsp;My brother gave me a list of graphic novels he wanted, and my sister seemed to shrug across the phone. &nbsp;"I haven't read anything good lately. &nbsp;Can you pick something for me?" I tried to figure out exactly what she wanted, but she stayed non-committal.<br /><br />So, here it is: the list of books I am bringing for my 14-year-old baby sister which may contain her new favorite book or may collect dust, depending on her preference.<br /><br />LIST OF BOOKS FOR MY 14YO BABY SISTER<br />-A galley of Daniel Wallace's <i>Kings and Queens of Roam</i>. &nbsp;<i>Big Fish</i>&nbsp;was excellent, maybe she's in the mood for some magical realism!<br />-Ray Bradbury's <i>Dandelion Wine</i>, but with the express instructions to read it at the beginning of June.<br />-Ned Vizzini's <i>The Other Normals, </i>because I thought it was hilarious.<br />-Jaclyn Moriarty's <i>The Corner of White. </i>Epistolary style! Fantasy!<br />-A beat-up copy of <i>The Fault in Our Stars</i>&nbsp;by John Green, because she should have one.<br />-Sherman Alexie's <i>The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian</i>, also because she should have one.<br /><br />(Personal to my sister: if/when I run out of clothing, know it's because I used most of my space bringing books home for you, so now you have to buy me dresses. I just put it out to the Internet so it has to happen, Internet rule.)<br />