---
published: true
title: One Week
date: '2013-09-25T17:13:00.001-04:00'
author: Jamie
tags:
- jamie
- week
- books
- can never stop reading
modified_datetime: '2013-09-25T17:13:52.976-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-7248862701890143502
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2013/09/one-week.html
---

The past few weeks have jammed themselves together in my mind and I am unable to separate them. &nbsp;Yes, they come one after the other, but each can be a self-contained unit filled with activities and details that say too much about you. So, for lack of a better topic, my week: <br /><br />Seven days ago, I got a pumpkin latte from Peet's. &nbsp;As per my last post, I am consuming everything pumpkin until it runs out or I've stockpiled pumpkins and have (improbably) learned to make things with them.<br /><br />Six days ago, we hosted Linda Ronstadt at the Coolidge. &nbsp;She amazes me--she's such a performer, willing to put herself out there and be genuine and lovely while still pushing herself for her fans.<br /><br />Five days ago, I was at a party and ended up talking about books with other book people, surprising no one.<br /><br />Four days ago, I had a day off. &nbsp;Unable to completely extract myself from books, I ended up re-reading <i>Franny and Zooey.&nbsp;</i><br /><br />Three days ago, I bought a rocking chair to complete my reading nook. &nbsp;I believe rocking chairs are most comfortable when your legs are draped over the side and you can rock back and forth by shifting your weight, and this chair is perfect. <br /><br />Two days ago I met Nicholson Baker, an author whose work I am obsessed with. &nbsp;I made sure that I didn't have <a href="http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2013/02/why-i-dont-drink-coffee-immediately.html" target="_blank">coffee earlier that day</a>, attempted to be as calm as possible, and only let out my full energy on the podium, during my introduction, when I somehow ad-libbed that I was having a 'hyperventilation moment.' I tried so hard to play it cool and failed in the most epic manner, but I have no regrets. &nbsp;There are infinitely worse things than a bookseller rabidly obsessed with your work.<br /><br />Yesterday Jodie left the Booksmith for good. &nbsp;Now our former travel buyer, she is one of the most genuine people I know and I'm doing my best not to think about the fact she is gone, because I think I might cry. &nbsp;I really adore my previous co-workers, and while I am so proud of them for getting amazing jobs, having babies, moving across the country, etc., I can't help but be sad that they're gone. <br /><br />Today I went with a few booksellers to New England Comics in Coolidge Corner. &nbsp;Only one of us went in with the intent to purchase, but we all left with something in our hands. &nbsp;Afterwards, we sat quietly while devouring the comics we purchased, which felt just right.