---
published: true
title: Summers Are For Bucket Lists
date: '2014-05-26T09:00:00.000-04:00'
author: Amy
tags:
- Amy might need to read fewer danger-fraught books
- YA
- children's books
- Bucket List
modified_datetime: '2014-05-26T09:00:05.902-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-1344935399633288444
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2014/05/summers-are-for-bucket-lists.html
---

Three exciting books! <br /><br />1.<i> Dangerous Creatures</i> by Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl<br />The beginning of the Beautiful Creatures spin-off series. This time we get to follow Ridley.<br /><br />2.<i> I am Cow, Hear me Moo</i> by Jill Esbaum, illustrated by Gus Gordon<br />I was shrink-wrapping when I found this book. I read segments of it out loud and laughed, loudly. It's clever and delightful and it rhymes.<br /><br />3.Odin's Ravens by Kelley Armstrong and Melissa Marr<br />I'm excited to see who else Matt, Fen, and Laurie find, who else they have to stand against, and just how close Ragnarok really is.<br /><br /><br />As summer approaches we all&nbsp; (theoretically) have more free-time. Or at least, we all think more about the free time we do have. More things seem possible. Maybe not having ice and snow to trek through or coats and gloves to lug around makes the idea of going on an adventure more desirable. Whatever the reason, the feeling is there.<br /><br />My work schedule won't change but I've been gearing up to go out and do more things and thinking about all of the things that I want to do. So, here, on this blog, I'm going to come up with my children's book inspired bucket list. These can't all be done this summer but maybe someday.<br /><br />And off we go!<br /><br />1. Take an <i>Anna and the French Kiss</i> (Stephanie Perkins) tour of Paris. <br /><br />2. Go on a spontaneous, heavily budgeted, backpack tour of Europe. (<i>Thirteen Little Blue Envelopes</i>, Maureen Johnson)<br /><br />3. Find a moose and name it Marcel. (<i>This Moose Belongs to Me</i>, Oliver Jeffers)<br /><br />4. Find and go to a paper town. (<i>Paper Towns</i>, John Green)<br /><br />5. Jump on and off of a moving train. (Divergent, Veronica Roth) (Note: Not over a gap in buildings, I would die)<br /><br />6. Climb a tall tree and sketch the landscape. (<i>Page</i>, Tamora Pierce) (Note: I, like Kel, am afraid of heights)<br /><br />7. Learn to shoot a bow. (<i>The Hunger Games</i>, Suzanne Collins) <br /><br />8. Find Glendower (or, at the very least, waken a ley line) (<i>The Raven Boys</i>, Maggie Stiefvater)<br /><br />9. Draw a picture that makes all of the crayons happy. (<i>The Day the Crayon's Quit</i>, Drew Daywalt)<br /><br />10. Live in an art museum (for a couple of days). (<i>From the Mixed-up files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler</i>, E.L. Konigsburg)<br /><br />11. Be the baddest witch in the whole world in a Halloween parade. (<i>Ramona the Pest</i>, Beverly Cleary)<br /><br />12. Put a doll to rest with it's original owner (preferably in a way involving a boat and a bus). (<i>Doll Bones</i>, Holly Black)<br /><br />13. Press here. (<i>Press Here</i>, Herve Tullet)<br /><br />14. Find a <strike>pet</strike> <b>friend</b> brontosaurus. (<i>Lulu and the Brontosauru</i>s, Judith Viorst)<br /><br />15. Exeunt on a leopard. (<i>The Girl Who Circumnavigated Fairyland in a Ship of her Own Making</i>, Catherine M. Valente)<br /><br />I think I can knock a couple of these out this summer. <br /><br />What's on your book inspired bucket list?<br /><br />-Amy