---
published: true
title: Common Bookseller Thoughts
date: '2014-03-03T09:00:00.000-05:00'
author: Amy
tags:
- booksellers
- Thinking Things is Hard
modified_datetime: '2014-03-03T09:00:10.943-05:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-5808305363785184147
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2014/03/common-bookseller-thoughts.html
---

Hullo! <br /><br />Three kids books I'm excited we got in:<br />1. <em>Timmy Failure: Now Look What You've Done</em> by Stephan Pastis<br />I love Timmy Failure. It never fails to make me laugh and these books have some of my favorite opening paragraphs of all time.<br /><br />2. <em>Faking Normal</em> by Courtney Stevens<br />I've heard such wonderful things in the lead up to this book's release. I'm thrilled it's finally here for me to read. I can't wait to have her here on the 24th.<br /><br />3. <em>Coyote Run</em> by Gaetan Doremus <br />After his delightful Bear Despire I was excited to see a new picture book by Doremus. Off beat and a little bit weird this one has enemies throwing down their weapons to sit around the fire. Later they are saved by swarms of ladybugs. <br /><br />Shoshana and I switched weeks so you get me two weeks in a row. To avoid overpowering anyone with my rambles I'm doing something a little different. <br /><br />I'm sure you've seen one of our booksellers standing in the middle of the store with a really confused look on their face. Or maybe not confused maybe just thoughtful or distracted. Perhaps you have spent hours wondering 'What could they possibly be thinking about?'<br /><br />If you don't tell anyone (except for the whole of the internet) I'll give you some insight into the bookseller brain. I've compiled a handy list of common bookseller thoughts. <br /><br /><br /><b>Are we looking at a shelf with a furrowed brow? We might be thinking one of the following:</b><br /><br />- 'G'...'G'... I know the alphabet I swear.'<br />- 'Do I have another copy of that?'<br />- 'I need more authors to have last names beginning with 'F.'<br />- 'Am I missing a display copy?'<br />- *groan* 'Did we just sell the last copy?'<br />- 'I still need to buy that book.'<br /><br /><br /><b>Do we look somewhat confused and distracted? Perhaps we're pondering one of these:</b><br /><br />- 'Do I have time to get coffee?'<br />- 'Where did I put my coffee?'<br />- 'Wait...did I have a stack of books in my hand?'<br />- 'I was just...'<br />- 'What was that page? Was that my name?'<br /><span style="font-family: Tahoma, Geneva, sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"></span><br /><span style="font-family: Tahoma, Geneva, sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"><br /><br /><b>A<span style="font-size: small;">re we a little bit frantic? It might be one of these:</span></b></span><br /><span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">- 'What was that sound?'</span></span><br /><span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">- 'I definitely think that was my name!'</span></span><br /><span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">- 'Oh no, I'm supposed to be on register!'</span></span><br /><span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">- 'Phone's ringing! Phone's ringing!'</span></span><br /><br /><br /><span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: inherit;">That isn't to say that I can speak for everyone. We're different people we have different concerns. So, maybe this should be 'Common Amy Bookselling Thoughts.' Regardless, insight is always a good thing. <br /><br />-Amy</span></span><br /><span style="font-family: Tahoma, Geneva, sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"></span><br />