---
published: true
title: Alex Is Reading...EVERY BOOK IN THE SERIES
date: '2014-12-22T16:45:00.003-05:00'
author: Alex S
tags:
- alex is reading
- YA
- kids books
modified_datetime: '2014-12-22T16:45:45.030-05:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-8245373501932198260
blogger_orig_url: https://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2014/12/alex-is-readingevery-book-in-series.html
---

HELLO, BLOGSMITH READERS. If you're anything like us, then you have been REALLY REALLY BUSY THIS WEEK. So with two more days of Hanukkah and Christmas hurtling towards us, let me make one last-minute holiday kids' gift suggestion. The suggestion is one word. The word is:<br /><br /><div style="text-align: center;">OMNIBUS.</div><div style="text-align: center;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;">An omnibus, for those who do not know, is a single volume containing multiple full books. Often these are very good books (at, might I add, a relatively low price). So here in the days of desperate end-of-the-holidays shopping, let me bring you a few of my favorite omnibuses in the kids' department.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>PICTURE BOOKS</b></div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>Miss Nelson Collection by Harry Allard, illustrated by James Marshall </b>-- A sweet schoolteacher tricks her bad students into being good through her witchy substitute alter-ego.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>Madeline Treasury by Ludwig Bemelmen</b> -- The classic adventures of the little French orphan, complete with appendicitis and Bat Hats. This is a gorgeous hardcover collection.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>My Favorite Dr. Seuss Treasury by Dr. Seuss</b> -- A newly published collection of Dr. Seuss classics. Like the Madeline, it's big, pretty, and it will be in the family for decades.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>BEGINNING READERS</b></div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>The Frog and Toad Treasury by Arnold Lobel</b> -- The hapless, charming, best-friend adventures of Frog and Toad all in one book. It's a nice edition and it's also twelve dollars. (?!)</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>FIRST CHAPTER BOOKS</b></div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>My Father's Dragon collection by Ruth Stiles Gannett</b> -- The gentle, imaginative fantasy classics in a very pretty hardcover edition.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>INTERMEDIATE FICTION</b></div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>The Complete Oz Volume 1 by L. Frank Baum</b> -- The first three books of the Oz series, which are funnier, weirder, and way better than you remember from your childhood. This is the first in a series of paperback collections.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>The Wrinkle in Time Trilogy by Madeleine L'Engle</b> -- Imagination-stretching, emotional, wonderful science fiction that you won't ever forget. The paperback collection is pretty and readable (and no one wants to stop after just one book...).</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>YOUNG ADULT</b></div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>The Dark Is Rising Sequence by Susan Cooper</b> -- Mythological villains, everyday heroes, Arthurian legend, dark powers, and the ultimate quest to preserve what's good, all set in a stark, fascinating England that will stick in your mind years after you've read them. This volume is the entire five-book series, which won two Newbery Honors and a Newbery Medal between them.<b>&nbsp;</b></div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>ADULT FANTASY/SCIFI</b></div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>Gormenghast Trilogy by Mervin Peake<i> </i></b><i>-- </i>If you have any precocious teenage readers of weird stuff on your list this year, try Gormenghast, the peculiar classic about young Titus Groan, a prince protecting his crumbling kingdom from the evil intentions of a power-hungry kitchen boy.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div>So that's what you can find on our shelves as of this writing. And of course, we the children's booksellers will be here too. Happy shopping, happy holidays, happy reading!