---
published: true
title: Books for the Fall
date: '2014-10-13T09:00:00.000-04:00'
author: Amy
tags:
- fall
- Fall books
modified_datetime: '2014-10-13T09:00:06.956-04:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-7179147222241592359
blogger_orig_url: https://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2014/10/books-for-fall.html
---

Three really exciting, super thrilling new books!<br /><br />1. <i>Blood of Olympus</i> by Rick Riordan<br />I mean...come on. It's the LAST BOOK! Then we have to wait for <a href="https://www.hypable.com/2014/09/23/rick-riordan-announces-magnus-chase-and-the-gods-of-asgard/">Magnus Chase</a> (which is set IN BOSTON!). Did I mention that we have signed copies?<br /><br />2. <i>Red Knit Cap Girl and The Reading Tree</i> by Naoko Stoop<br />We love the Red Knit Cap Girl in general. But we love her even more when there are books involved.<br /><br />3. <i>A Bean, A Stalk, and a Boy Named Jack</i> by William Joyce<br />I love him. I love him. William Joyce's books are lovely and funny and just so brilliantly rendered. His newest, a take on Jack and the Beanstalk, is no exception.<br /><br />A little while back I did a <a href="https://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2014/07/but-waitis-that-beach-read.html">post</a> on books that reminded me of summer. Now, it's fall and it's my favorite season and I haven't talked yet about books that feel like fall. This is a very important season.<br /><br />So let's do that now. In no particular order I present Books That Remind Amy of Fall:<br /><br />1. <i>Doll Bone</i>s by Holly Black<br />Maybe it's the creepy factor. The potentially possessed doll, the late night bus ride, the cemetery. But this book makes me think of fall. Dead leaves and moonlit skies. <br /><br />2. <i>Fletcher and the Falling Leaves</i> by Julia Rawlinson<br />My love for this book is no secret, neither are its ties to fall. When the leaves start falling Fletcher worries that is friend the tree is sick. It's sweet and lovely. <br /><br />3. <i>First Test</i> by Tamora Pierce<br />Back to school books often have a fall-ish air to them, even though school starts in the summer. This isn't technically school and the books spans a year so it covers all of the seasons but there's still something so essentially autumnal about it.<br /><br />4. <i>5th Wave</i> by Rick Yancy<br />I could probably say that this reminds me of fall because it's sort of about the fall of humanity but that's not it...I don't think. It just has the same sort of Fall feel. <br /><br />5. <i>Flora's Very Windy Day</i> by Jeanne Birdsall<br />The fall colors, the dead leaves, the wind stealing a sibling. I mean that all just screams fall!<br /><br />6. <i>Book of Shadows</i> by Cate Tiernan<br />The start of school in the midwest mixed with a setting of graveyards and the discovery of magick. Tiernan's entire <i>Sweep</i> series is the perfect read for an autumn week.<br /><br />7. <i>Ballad </i>by Maggie Stiefvater<br />This one I find interesting because the first in the series, <i>Lament</i> feels like a spring book to me. But this is the darker side to the story. It has more of an edge and that is all fall.<br /><br />8. <i>Unspoken</i> by Sarah Rees Brennan<br />This is all fall. Creepy woods and sorcerers and small towns.<br /><br />9. <i>Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark</i> by Alvin Schwartz<br />Do I even need to say anything about this one?<br /><br />10. <i>The Lost Boy</i> by Greg Ruth<br />Creepy woods. Even creepier creatures. Beautiful and unique artwork. A boy finds an old fashioned recorder on which he hears the story of a boy years before who gets caught in a good versus evil battle that goes wrong.<br /><br /><br />I was sitting here trying to figure out what it is about these books that make me think of fall. I'm not really sure what it is to be honest. As I was thinking of titles I was very quickly dismissing titles with a brief "No, that's winter/spring/summer." I'm not sure if it's just setting, or an unsettling plot, or just a feeling but something about all of these titles reminds me of fall.<br /><br />-Amy<br />