---
layout: post
title: Alex Is Reading...HELPFUL GUIDES TO THE APOCALYPSE
date: '2015-02-16T09:00:00.000-05:00'
author: Alex S
tags:
- alex is reading
- kids books
- science fiction
- dystopia
modified_time: '2015-02-16T09:00:04.742-05:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5767374071871443859.post-146141319175257626
blogger_orig_url: http://brooklinebooksmith.blogspot.com/2015/02/alex-is-readinghelpful-guides-to.html
---

<div style="text-align: center;"><b>SO YOU'VE BEEN LIVING IN BOSTON FOR THE LAST MONTH:</b></div><div style="text-align: center;"><b>A Helpful List of Post-Apocalyptic/Dystopian Books You May Not Have Read Yet</b></div><div style="text-align: center;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: center;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: center;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>1. The Wind Singer (Book 1 of the Wind on Fire Trilogy)</b> by William Nicholson, currently available in the children's section of the Used Book Cellar. An other-world fantasy which starts with a dystopian plot in book one and moves on to bigger and better (and equally fascinating) things in books two and three.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>2. The Knife of Never Letting Go </b>by Patrick Ness, available in our Young Adult section. Also a trilogy. The language is unique and gripping, the story is ferocious, and it's unforgettably atmospheric.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>3. The House of the Scorpion</b> by Nancy Farmer, a story about a boy raised in a country called Opium who discovers the horrific reality of what he is: a clone of the country's drug lord, created as potential spare parts for the original. It'll be in Young Adult.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>4. Starglass </b>by Phoebe North, a subtle, beautiful book that takes place on a city-sized spaceship seeking a new future for humanity on a far-away planet. Carefully intertwines personal and political loyalties and turns dystopia and romantic tropes on their heads. And then there's the ending, which gut-punches the entire story so far and makes all those big problems look suddenly small. Also worth noting--this ship is culturally Jewish. Find it in Young Adult.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>5. We </b>by Yevgeny Zamyatin lives over in adult fiction, and it's the precursor to every single dystopian novel you've ever heard of--before Brave New World, before 1984, before Fahrenheit 451, before The Hunger Games, before Divergent, there was this little Russian novel. It's also fantastic.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>6. The City of Ember</b> by Jeanne du Prau may not be my very favorite kids' dystopia, but there's a good graphic novel adaptation of this story of a long-underground human civilization in our kids graphica section. </div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>7. Snow Crash </b>by Neal Stephenson is over in adult Science Fiction (good for teen readers), and it's a classic mind trip about a pizza delivery guy named Hiro Protagonist, virtual reality, and post-disaster America.<br /><br /><b>8. The Prince Who Fell from the Sky </b>by John Claude Bemis is a convincing and satisfying futuristic animal fantasy, about the animals living on post-apocalypse Earth when a single human child--survivor of a spaceship crash--lands among them. You can order this one through our website. Intermediate.</div><div style="text-align: left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align: left;"><b>9. The Last Book in the Universe</b> by Rodman Philbrick is about a kid who's charged with, essentially, protecting the last records of human knowledge in a world that's fallen apart. Also available online. Intermediate.<br /><br /><b>10. Feed</b> by M.T. Anderson (to be found in Young Adult) is where I started reading dystopian fiction. So, it's America's future, and the weather is all screwy and people are getting weird diseases, but your extremely portable technology always knows just what you want to shop for! That's good, right? Hint: it's not good. It's totally not good. It's totally, extremely not good. (But it <i>is</i> a good book.)<br /><br />With these books and others in hand, may you have a snug continued snowpocalypse. Happy chilly reading!</div>