---
title: They Were Always With You
published: false
featured: false
date: 2016-01-15T09:00:00.000Z
description: "For LGBT+ children who don't think beloved authors can be like them."
featured_image_path:
featured_image_position: 50
show_featured_image_in_post: false
fancy_font:
category:
staff:
books:
---


The Pulse night club shooting has made the last week and a half a bitterly difficult week and a half for many people. This week, the kids' team is fortunate to come together with children's booksellers nationwide at the yearly Children's Institute conference. This year's CI takes place in Orlando. I've never been south of Pennsylvania, and I won't say the timing for my first visit doesn't hurt my heart. The truth is, however, that my hurt can walk away.

It's in complicated, massive, and terrible situations like this that I like to remember Silk's [Ring Theory of grief](http://articles.latimes.com/2013/apr/07/opinion/la-oe-0407-silk-ring-theory-20130407). Succinctly explained, everyone's grief is valid, but the kind and productive thing to do is to express your grief to those who hurt less than you do, and comfort those who hurt worse--those are closer to the source of pain. It might be a good thing to remember, not just this week but every day. Listen to the wounded; share your own pain outward. Don't put weight on the people who are already carrying the worst burdens.

Here's something else to remember. Only[a few weeks ago](http://www.brooklinebooksmith.com/2016/06/03/pride-2016/), I wrote that Pride has always come from the midst of violent opposition, and it has always been (willfully, deliberately) a celebration. This week at Children's Institute, we celebrate books. So today, I want to embrace the spirit of both. Today I want to celebrate, remember, and thank some of the (often quietly, sometimes fearfully) LGB authors and illustrators who changed my life and many other lives, as readers, as writers, and as people.

A number of these creators died young, their personal lives hidden from their reading public and even their publishers. Several of them died of AIDS, but no one was allowed to talk about it for years because AIDS meant gay, and a gay children’s author was unthinkable for public consumption. But despite the strain of hiding, these incredible authors and illustrators shared with us books that are life-changing, world-sculpting, brilliant, wild, wonderful.

Their books find their way into the hands of children who need them. Some of those children are queer, and some *them*, even today, may have to become adults before they even learn that *they’re not bad*. Maybe they'll love books for decades before they learn that some of their favorite authors and greatest heroes have been on their team all along. Maybe this is you. But these authors were always here. They were always on your team. And today we decide that the truth is better than the surprise decades later. Today we celebrate and determine that we won't forget.

&nbsp;